# Devops Culture
When we work on large and complex projects, we have bigger team. One of the bottlenecks that may create issues in project is the team collaboration.Developers may do something else, keeping in mind some other objective, and operations may do something else, keeping in mind some other objective.Because they have cross-cutting concerns, we need to ensure that they collaborate well.  And there comes responsibility of implementing proper DevOps culture. 

DevOps culture is all about cultivating culture in the team and having a predefined organizational culture to drive the development. We need to always focus on __shared responsibility__ among the team. And when we talk about shared responsibility, they have shared responsibilityin terms of automation and proper feedback collaboration. And also, they need to ensure that quality is built in.

Team culture can be enhanced using various different tools. And in order to ensure that everyone follows common objective, they can also depend on tools.The team can have in-house programs in order to have proper exchange of learning.Organizational cultures should adopt automation instead of going for silos.
# How teams collaborate in DevOpslife cycle
You'll have different teams which will have different task that they will be doing in order to achieve the common objective of the project. You'll have developers, you will have testers, you will have QA, you will have deployers. And you will have people who monitor and maintain. In order to ensure that we are able to adopt a common collaboration strategy, we can depend on a collaboration tool. Objective of collaboration tool is to collect the feedback which comes from teams participating in different processes.For example, developers will code and they will place their code in source code management tool. Apart from that, DevOps will kick start continuous integration process to  automate the build. Once build is done, artifact will be placed in artifact repository. And documentation about that artifact will be shared in collaboration tool along with the feedback. Once artifacts are there in artifact repository, you can go and fetch the artifact and deploy the artifact. 

Post deployment, you can do automated testing as well.But ensure that feedback is being published on the collaboration tool by using different collaboration tools which are available.This continuous feedback will ensure that you have proper documentation in place which can be utilized by the team in order to know the history ofthe development and also what is the current status of the product.
# DevOps cultural transformation
DevOps cultural transformation means you have to bring in transformation in the existing team by not only applying the right processes but also transforming the way the team thinks. And once you have done cultural transformation, you will be able to foster easier and better collaboration among the teams. You will be able to quickly provision new roles, titles and responsibility and delegate it to the person whom you want to manage it. It also ensures that you have adopted the best practices by collecting knowledge that comes through proper feedback cycle and is made accessible to everyone on some collaboration tool. 

Another benefit of transformation is the way teams will think.Their focus now would be more on business service rather than on technologies. And cultural transformation will also cultivate the right trust which need to be there among teams in order to work with resources which sometimes will be shared in nature. 
# Cultural Values generated from DevOps cultural transformation
You will have people, process, and technology involved. You need to ensure that you are building the right trust and transparency between Dev and Ops by sharing the artifacts. You also need to understand that entire team need to have common understanding about customers' point of view and expectation. It also helps you to organize application delivery pipeline, which starts from analysis of the problem and goes till making the solution available.There are various practices that you can incorporate, thinking in terms of service is one of them. You can incorporate service-oriented architecture in order to ensure that you move from silos to service-based artifacts. When you define services, it brings up the  right module strength. And that fosters simplicity and reliability by eliminating dependency of one service over another. Finally, you need to ensure that you are utilizing customers' data effectively.You should ensure that every detail that is gathered from customer is being incorporated in the system. And final objective of DevOps culture is to facilitate proper collaboration between Dev and Ops to ensure that developers are aware about the environment. And Ops are aware about the artifact that they are going to support.
